--- TEXT FROM Problem statement - 1.docx ---
🧠 AI Build Sprint – Problem Statement 1 
Goal-to-Multi-Agent Orchestrator
🔹 Objective
Build a no-code AI system that can take a high-level instruction such as:
“Analyze this insurance claim, check validity, estimate payout, and generate a customer response.”
and automatically:
Interpret the intent
Decompose it into multiple tasks
Execute tasks through a multi-step workflow (sequential and/or parallel)
Generate a final structured decision with reasoning and confidence

🔹 Expectation (Important)
Teams are expected to go beyond a basic prototype and demonstrate:
Clear workflow design
Decision-making logic
Handling of multiple cases
Robustness and explainability

🔹 System Requirements
Your system must include the following components:
Claim Analysis
Coverage Validation
Fraud / Consistency Check
Damage Assessment (from text and image)
Payout Estimation
Customer Communication

🔹 Workflow Requirements
Minimum 5 distinct steps
Must include decision points (branching logic)
Workflow can be:
Sequential, and/or
Parallel (e.g., fraud check and coverage check simultaneously)
❗ Single prompt-based solutions are not acceptable.

🔹 Input Format
Each claim will follow this structure:
Claim ID: C1
Description: Rear-end collision at signal, minor bumper damage
Policy Type: Comprehensive
Claim Amount: ₹25,000
Past Claims: 0
Documents: Complete / Missing
Image: teams may use relevant images downloaded from web

🔹 Multiple Case Processing (Mandatory)
Your system must process at least 3 claims and generate outputs for each.

🔹 Image Usage
Teams may optionally use images (download from web)
Use AI tools to:
Infer damage severity
Cross-check with description
Image usage is strongly encouraged for higher evaluation

🔹 Policy Rules (Simplified)
Coverage:
Comprehensive Policy → Covers own damage 
Third-Party Policy → Does NOT cover own damage 

Validity Rules:
A claim is valid if:
Covered under policy
Documents are complete
No strong fraud indicators

Fraud Indicators:
More than 3 past claims
High claim amount for minor damage
Missing or inconsistent details

🔹 Damage Classification
Minor → scratch, dent, bumper damage
Moderate → panel damage, broken lights
Major → severe impact, engine damage

🔹 Payout Logic
Deductible: ₹3,000
Final payout = (% of claim amount) – deductible
Teams must justify the selected percentage.

🔹 Confidence Score
High (0.8–0.95) → Clear case
Medium (0.6–0.8) → Some ambiguity
Low (<0.6) → Missing data / fraud risk

🔹 Expected Output Format
For each claim:
{
 "Claim ID": "C1",
 "Status": "Approved / Rejected / Pending",
 "Estimated Payout": "₹XXXX",
 "Confidence Score": 0.85,
 "Reason": "Brief explanation",
 "Customer Message": "Clear and polite message"
}
🔹 Explanation Requirement (Important)
Your system must provide:
Step-wise reasoning OR
A clear explanation of how the decision was made

🔹 Edge Case Handling (Mandatory for Full Score)
Your system should handle:
Fraud cases
Missing documents
Invalid policies
Conflicting inputs (e.g., text vs image mismatch)

🔹 Enhancements
Process more than 3 claims
Use images effectively in decision-making
Build a simple UI/dashboard
Use multiple AI tools
Provide structured logs or workflow visualization

🔹 Tools
Use no-code AI tools only




--- TEXT FROM insurance_adk_build_plan_v2.docx ---



1. Why Google ADK Over Flowise
Google ADK (Agent Development Kit) is a Python-native framework that gives granular control over agent execution, state management, and branching logic — things that required workarounds in Flowise's visual canvas. The agent design, decision gates, ClaimContext schema, and all six specialist agents remain architecturally identical. ADK simply replaces the visual wiring with explicit, testable Python.


2. ADK Primitive Mapping
Every component in the v1.0 blueprint maps directly to a specific ADK primitive. No component is lost — only the implementation changes.


3. Session State — The ClaimContext in ADK
In ADK, session.state is the shared dictionary that flows between all agents in a pipeline run — the direct equivalent of the Flowise ClaimContext object. Each agent reads its required inputs from state and writes its output back under its assigned output_key. The state is fully typed via Pydantic models for validation at boundaries.

3.1  State Keys and Ownership

3.2  Skip Guard Pattern — How Early Exit Works
When Gate A or Gate B sets pipeline_status to 'pending' or 'rejected', subsequent LlmAgents must not execute. ADK does not natively skip agents in a SequentialAgent, so a before_agent_callback is registered on every downstream LlmAgent. This callback checks pipeline_status in session.state at the start of each agent run. If status is not 'active', the callback returns a pre-built skip response immediately, and the LlmAgent does not make an API call. This is functionally identical to Flowise's conditional routing but fully transparent in code.



4. Repository Structure
The project is split into three top-level directories: backend (ADK Python pipeline + FastAPI server), frontend (Next.js app), and shared (Pydantic schemas that both sides import or mirror).


5. Module Responsibilities

5.1  agents/ — The Six Specialist Agents
Each file in this directory defines a single ADK LlmAgent instance. The agent is configured with its model name (gemini-2.5-flash-preview), its system prompt imported from prompts/, its output_key for session state, and its before_agent_callback (the skip guard). Agent 4 has an additional image injection step before the LLM call.

5.2  gates/ — Decision Gate Agents
Each gate is a custom class that inherits from ADK's BaseAgent. It overrides the _run_async_impl method, which is a pure Python async function with no LLM call. The gate reads the required keys from ctx.session.state, evaluates the branching logic exactly as specified in the v1.0 blueprint, and writes the result back to state. Gates never produce text output — they only mutate state.

5.3  pipeline/ — Pipeline Assembly
The main_pipeline.py file constructs the full SequentialAgent by instantiating all agents and gates in order. The parallel block is a ParallelAgent object inserted at position 4 in the sequence. The runner.py file provides a process_claim(claim_dict) async function that creates a new ADK InMemorySessionService, initializes session state with the parsed ClaimContext, runs the pipeline, and returns the final_output from state.

5.4  schemas/ — Pydantic Models
All data contracts are defined here as Pydantic v2 models. ClaimContext holds the raw claim fields. Each AgentNOutput model mirrors exactly the JSON schema specified in the v1.0 agent design. FinalOutput is the top-level output schema including the WorkflowLog. These models serve three purposes: validating LLM JSON output, providing type hints throughout the Python codebase, and generating TypeScript type definitions for the frontend.

5.5  prompts/ — System Prompts
All six system prompt strings are stored as named constants in a single prompts.py file. Each prompt is identical to the v1.0 blueprint specification. Keeping prompts separate from agent definitions makes iteration fast: changing a prompt never requires touching agent wiring logic. Prompts are versioned alongside the codebase.

5.6  api/ — FastAPI Server
The FastAPI application exposes two endpoints. The /process-claim endpoint accepts a single claim JSON body, runs the ADK pipeline via the runner, and returns the FinalOutput JSON. The /process-batch endpoint accepts an array of claim objects and runs them concurrently using asyncio.gather, returning an array of FinalOutput objects. CORS is configured to allow the Next.js frontend origin.


6. Input Parser Agent
The Input Parser is the first LlmAgent in the pipeline. It receives the raw claim JSON from the API request body (already parsed by FastAPI) and its role is to produce a validated, normalized ClaimContext. It checks for null or missing fields, computes an initial completeness assessment, and writes the result to session.state['claim_context']. Because the input is already structured JSON from the Next.js form, the parser primarily enforces the Pydantic schema and catches edge cases like missing policy_type or null claim_amount.


7. Agent 1 — Claim Analyzer
Unchanged from v1.0. The system prompt, output schema, and classification rules are identical. The ADK-specific change is that the agent reads claim_context from session.state rather than receiving it as a Flowise context injection, and writes its structured JSON output to agent1_output in state via output_key.

7.1  Gemini JSON Output Enforcement
Gemini 2.5 Flash supports a response_schema parameter in the generation config. For all six specialist agents, the Pydantic output model is converted to a JSON Schema dict and passed as response_schema to enforce structured output. This eliminates the need for post-hoc JSON parsing and removes the risk of markdown-wrapped output. This is a significant reliability improvement over Flowise's JSON enforcement via prompt wording alone.

8. Gate A — Completeness Check
Gate A is the first custom BaseAgent. It runs immediately after Agent 1 and before the parallel block. It reads agent1_output['completeness_score'] and agent1_output['missing_fields'] from session state. Its logic is pure Python — no LLM call.


9. Parallel Block — Agents 2 & 3
The ParallelAgent wraps Agent 2 (Coverage Validator) and Agent 3 (Fraud Detector) and executes them concurrently using asyncio. Both agents receive the same session state snapshot. ADK's ParallelAgent handles the async execution and merges both outputs back into the shared session state. Each agent writes to its own dedicated output_key, so there is no write conflict.

9.1  Agent 2 — Coverage Validator

9.2  Agent 3 — Fraud Detector

10. Gate B — Coverage + Fraud Merge
Gate B reads the outputs of both parallel agents and applies the rejection and routing logic. It is the most consequential gate in the pipeline. Its logic maps exactly to the v1.0 specification.


11. Agent 4 — Damage Assessor (Vision)
Agent 4 is the only multimodal agent. In ADK, the LlmAgent content block supports mixed text and image input natively for Gemini models. The image handling strategy is described in detail in Part D. The agent's skip guard checks if pipeline_status is 'rejected' — if so, it returns immediately without making an API call.


12. Gate C — Image / Text Mismatch

13. Agent 5 — Payout Estimator
Agent 5 reads the confirmed_damage_type from Agent 4, the fraud_risk from Agent 3, and the total confidence_penalty accumulated from Gates B and C in session state. It applies the payout range rules and deductible exactly as specified in v1.0. The confidence score it produces is computed as: base_confidence (0.90) + all accumulated penalties from state.

13.1  Confidence Score Accumulation Across Gates

14. Agent 6 — Communication Writer
Agent 6 runs in all exit paths — Approved, Rejected, and Pending. It reads the pipeline_status, the assembled reason (from whichever gate fired), the final_payout from Agent 5 (or zero if Agent 5 was skipped), and the claim_id. Its system prompt and 150-word rule are unchanged from v1.0. The skip guard on Agent 6 is set to 'never skip' — it is the final human-facing step and must always produce a message.

15. Log Aggregator
The Log Aggregator is the final custom BaseAgent. It is pure Python with no LLM call. It reads all agent output keys from session.state and assembles the FinalOutput Pydantic model. The FinalOutput is written back to state under 'final_output' and is the return value of the runner.process_claim() function. The FastAPI endpoint serializes this model to JSON and returns it to the Next.js frontend.


16. Image Handling Pipeline
Because images now come from a Next.js form rather than a Google Sheet URL, the handling strategy changes slightly from v1.0 but the semantics are identical: Agent 4 receives either the image content or a 'not provided' signal.

16.1  Image Input Options from the Frontend
Option A — URL input: User pastes a public image URL in the claim form. The frontend sends the URL string in the claim JSON. The backend image_handler.py fetches the URL, validates the content type, and encodes it as base64 before injecting into the Agent 4 content block.
Option B — File upload: User uploads an image file directly in the form. Next.js sends it as a multipart form field. FastAPI extracts the bytes, validates the MIME type, and passes the raw bytes to image_handler.py for base64 encoding.
Option C — No image: The image field is null or absent. image_handler.py returns None. Agent 4 receives the text-only content block. image_text_match is set to null — no mismatch penalty, no Gate C trigger.

16.2  Image Safety Checks in image_handler.py
Maximum file size check: 5MB limit enforced before encoding
MIME type whitelist: Only image/jpeg, image/png, image/webp accepted
Fetch timeout: 10-second timeout on URL fetch; failure treated as no image provided
Encoding: Converted to base64 string; injected as Gemini inline_data Part

17. Error Handling Strategy
ADK's reliability requirements from the v1.0 SRS (NFR-02: 2 retries per agent, NFR-03: safe default on malformed JSON) are implemented at the Python level with explicit mechanisms.

17.1  Retry Decorator
A custom retry decorator in utils/retry.py wraps each LlmAgent's LLM call. It catches google.api_core.exceptions.DeadlineExceeded, google.api_core.exceptions.ServiceUnavailable, and any HTTP 429 (rate limit) response. It retries up to 2 times with exponential backoff (1s, 2s). On third failure, it raises a PipelineAgentError with the agent name and claim ID, which the FastAPI handler catches and returns as a 503 response to the frontend.

17.2  JSON Parse Failure Handling
Even with Gemini's response_schema enforcement, a parse failure is handled by a safe_parse utility function. If the returned string cannot be parsed into the expected Pydantic model, the function logs the raw response, constructs a default safe output for that agent (e.g., fraud_risk='medium' for Agent 3, coverage_valid=False for Agent 2), writes it to session state, and allows the pipeline to continue. This satisfies NFR-03 and ensures a claim is never silently lost.

18. Batch Processing
The v1.0 Make.com scenario loop is replaced by the /process-batch FastAPI endpoint. The endpoint receives an array of claim objects, creates an independent runner task for each, and executes them concurrently with asyncio.gather. Because each claim gets its own ADK InMemorySessionService instance, there is zero shared state between concurrent claim executions. Results are returned as an ordered array corresponding to the input order.



19. Frontend Architecture Overview
The Next.js app has two primary views: the Claim Submission page where users enter or batch-upload claims, and the Results Dashboard where they see per-claim decisions with full workflow log drill-down. The frontend communicates with the FastAPI backend via a typed API client in lib/api.ts. TypeScript interfaces in lib/types.ts mirror the Pydantic schemas from the backend.


20. Claim Submission Form (/submit)
This is the primary input interface replacing Google Sheets. The form captures all required claim fields and converts them to the ClaimContext JSON expected by the backend API.

20.1  Form Fields
Claim ID: Text input with auto-generate option (UUID or sequential)
Description: Textarea with character count (minimum 20 characters)
Policy Type: Radio or Select — 'Comprehensive' or 'Third-Party' only
Claim Amount (₹): Numeric input with INR formatting; minimum ₹1
Past Claims: Numeric stepper (0–99); defaults to 0
Documents Status: Toggle or Select — 'Complete' or 'Missing'
Image: Optional — file upload (JPEG/PNG) OR URL text input, mutually exclusive

20.2  Form Validation Before Submission
Client-side Zod schema validation mirrors Pydantic model constraints
Required fields: Claim ID, Description, Policy Type, Claim Amount, Documents Status
Numeric bounds: Claim Amount > 0, Past Claims >= 0
Image: If URL provided, validated as a well-formed URL string
On validation error: Inline field-level error messages; submit button disabled

20.3  Submission Flow
On valid submit: Form data serialized to ClaimContext JSON
If image file uploaded: File converted to base64 or sent as multipart; URL sent as string
POST to /api/process-claim (Next.js API route proxying to FastAPI backend)
Loading state: Submit button shows spinner; form inputs disabled during processing
On success: User redirected to /results/[claimId] showing the result
On error: Toast notification with error message; form remains filled

21. Results Dashboard (/results)
The dashboard shows all claims processed in the current session (stored in browser state or a lightweight in-memory store on the Next.js server). For the hackathon demo, this is sufficient — no database is required.

21.1  Claims Table
Columns: Claim ID, Status (color-coded badge), Estimated Payout, Confidence Score (progress bar), Damage Type, Processing Time
Status badges: Green = Approved, Red = Rejected, Amber = Pending
Filters: Filter by Status (All / Approved / Rejected / Pending), sort by Confidence Score or Claim Amount
Row click: Navigates to /results/[claimId] detail view

21.2  Per-Claim Detail View (/results/[claimId])
This is the explainability showcase — the most important page for the hackathon evaluation.

Top section: ClaimCard showing final Status, Payout, Confidence Score, and Reason summary
Workflow Timeline: Visual step-by-step timeline showing which agents ran, which gates fired, and where the pipeline branched — each step is a clickable accordion
Agent Output Accordions: Expanding each agent step reveals the raw JSON output for that agent (color-formatted), satisfying the explainability requirement
Gate Decisions: Gates A, B, C shown as decision nodes in the timeline with the condition that was evaluated and the outcome
Customer Message: Displayed in a message bubble UI styled as an email/notification
Image Section: If an image was provided, shows the uploaded image alongside Agent 4's mismatch assessment

21.3  Batch Results View (/submit/batch)
Accepts a JSON file upload containing an array of claim objects
Preview table shows all claims before submission with row validation highlighting
On submit: calls /api/process-batch; shows a progress indicator per claim
Results displayed in the same dashboard table after all claims complete
Export button: Downloads all results as a JSON file for submission


22. FastAPI — Backend API Design

22.1  Endpoints

22.2  Next.js API Route (Proxy)
The Next.js app does not call the FastAPI backend directly from the browser. Instead, a Next.js API route (/app/api/process-claim/route.ts) acts as a proxy, forwarding requests to the FastAPI server. This keeps the FastAPI URL out of the browser, handles multipart image uploads cleanly server-side, and allows easy environment-based URL switching between local dev and production.

23. Testing Plan

23.1  Unit Tests — Per Agent
Each LlmAgent is tested with a mocked Gemini response returning the expected JSON schema
Each Gate agent is tested with all branching paths: pass, fail, and edge cases
Pydantic schema validation tested with valid, invalid, and partial inputs
image_handler.py tested with URL success, URL timeout, file upload, and null input

23.2  Integration Tests — Full Pipeline
The five sample claims from v1.0 are the canonical integration test suite. Each test runs the full ADK pipeline with real Gemini API calls and asserts on the expected output fields.



24. NFR Implementation in ADK Stack


25. Enhancements (Mapped from v1.0 to ADK Stack)

25.1  Human-in-the-Loop for Medium Confidence Claims
Claims where confidence_score falls in the 0.60–0.80 band (Medium) are surfaced in the Next.js dashboard with a distinct 'Needs Review' visual state. The API response includes a human_review_recommended boolean field set by the Log Aggregator. The frontend shows a prominent review banner on the detail page. No separate Airtable table needed — this is handled in the dashboard filter.

25.2  Batch Summary Report
After a batch run completes, the Next.js dashboard computes and displays a summary panel: total claims processed, count by status (Approved/Rejected/Pending), average confidence score, total payout exposure (sum of all approved final_payout values), and count of fraud rejections. This is computed client-side from the batch results array — no additional API call needed.

25.3  Multi-language Customer Messages (Agent 6)
A 'preferred_language' field can be added to the ClaimContext with values like 'English', 'Hindi', 'Tamil'. The Agent 6 system prompt includes a conditional instruction to generate the message in the specified language. The Next.js form includes a language selector dropdown. This requires no architectural change to the ADK pipeline.

25.4  Workflow Visualization in Next.js
The per-claim detail page renders a live workflow diagram using a lightweight graph component (e.g., React Flow). Nodes correspond to each pipeline step; edges show the execution path taken for that specific claim. Nodes that were skipped (due to early exit at a gate) are rendered in a muted/dashed style. This is the ADK equivalent of exporting the Flowise canvas as a visual deliverable.


26. Backend Dependencies


27. Frontend Dependencies


28. Environment Configuration



